
# CLI Developer Update v17.0

New CLI version introduces big improvements to the code base and allows 
other developers to import `flowcli` package to be used in their projects.

Configuration was unified and you can now use the new configuration format for all the commands.

Commands and flags were adapted for more consistency.
New [documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli/) covering all the commands you can use. 

Release also includes CLI design guidelines which you 
can read in [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTIRUBUTING.md) document

Improved deprecation warnings. Commands now include deprecated flags which instruct you 
how to use the command with new flags.

```
❌ Command Error: ⚠️ DEPRECATED: flag is deprecated, use command argument.
```

Improved Error reporting with suggestions how to fix the error.

```
❌ Error while dialing dial tcp 127.0.0.1:3569: connect: connection refused" 
🙏 Make sure your emulator is running or connection address is correct.
```

## ⭐ Features

### Output
Output format was changed, so it stays consistent between commands. New flags were introduced 
that control the output. Let's take a quick look at the new flags, but make sure to read 
more about them in the documentation on each command:

- Output: `--output` specify the format of the command results (JSON, inline...),
- Save: `--save` specify the filename where you want the result to be saved,
- Log: `--log` control how much output you want to see during command execution,
- Filter: `--filter` Specify any property name from the result you want to return as the only value.

All the flags and their allowed values are specified 
for each command in the [documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli/).

Changed output for fetching account.
```
Address  179b6b1cb6755e31
Balance  0
Keys     2

Key 0   Public Key               c8a2a318b9099cc6...a0fe320dba7
        Weight                   1000
        Signature Algorithm      ECDSA_P256
        Hash Algorithm           SHA3_256

Code             
         pub contract Foo {
                pub var bar: String
         
                init() {
                        self.bar = "Hello, World!"
                }
         }
```

Output account result as JSON.
```
{"Address":"179b6b1cb6755e31","Balance":0,"Code":"CnB1YiBj...SIKCX0KfQo=","Keys":[{"Index":0,"PublicKey":{},"SigAlgo":2,"HashAlgo":3,"Weight":1000,"SequenceNumber":0,"Revoked":false}],"Contracts":null}
```

Improved progress feedback with loaders.
```
Loading 0x1fd892083b3e2a4c...⠼
```

### Shared Library

You can import Flow CLI shared library from the `flowcli` package and use the functionality 
from the service layer in your own software. Codebase was divided into two components, first 
is the CLI interaction layer, and the second is the shared library component which is meant 
to be reused.

### Account Staking Info Command
New command to fetch staking info from the account was added. Read more about it in the
[documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli/staking-info).

```shell
> accounts staking-info 535b975637fb6bee --host access.testnet.nodes.onflow.org:9000

Account Staking Info:
ID: 			 "ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010"
Initial Weight: 	 100
Networking Address: 	 "ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010"
Networking Key: 	 "ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010"
Role: 			 1
Staking Key: 		 "ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010ca00101101010100001011010101010101010101010101011010101010101010"
Tokens Committed: 	 0.00000000
Tokens To Unstake: 	 0.00000000
Tokens Rewarded: 	 82627.77000000
Tokens Staked: 		 250000.00000000
Tokens Unstaked: 	 0.00000000
Tokens Unstaking: 	 0.00000000
Total Tokens Staked: 	 250000.00000000


Account Delegation Info:
ID: 			 7
Tokens Committed: 	 0.00000000
Tokens To Unstake: 	 0.00000000
Tokens Rewarded: 	 30397.81936000
Tokens Staked: 		 100000.00000000
Tokens Unstaked: 	 0.00000000
Tokens Unstaking: 	 0.00000000

```

## 💥 Breaking Changes

### Initializing Configuration
Configuration format was unified to work for all CLI commands. 
Generating new configuration is done by executing command `flow project init`. 
Command `flow init` was removed as it provides the same functionality as project init command. 

###⚠️ Deprecated Flags 

**Accounts**
- Flag `--results` is deprecated, results are displayed by default.
- Flag `--code` on `accounts get` command was deprecated, use `--contracts` flag instead.

**Blocks**
- Flags `--latest`, `--id` and `--height` were deprecated in favour of using block argument.
Command should be used with query argument where you can specify block height, id or value `latest`.
Read more about it in the [documentation](https://docs.onflow.org/flow-cli/get-blocks).
  
**Events**
- Flag `--verbose` was deprecated. 

**Keys**
- Flag `--algo` was renamed to `--sig-algo`.

**Transactions**
- Flag `--code` was deprecated, use filename argument instead.
- Flag `--results` was deprecated, results are displayed by default.

## 🐞 Bug Fixes

### Address 0x prefix
Addresses are not required to be prefixed with `0x` anymore. You can use either format, but 
due to consistency we advise using `0x` prefix with addresses represented in `hex` format.

### Project deploy error
Deploying contract provides improved error handling in case something goes wrong you 
can now read what the error was right from the commandline. 

    